Automatown Game Mechanics Prototype
------------------------------------
Goal:
Create a hole in the north wall to escape this area.

How to play:
You are blue cylinder (All the art work is placeholder art).
Click anywhere on the grid to move your automaton.
Click and drag to move the camera.
Click any button on the left side of the screen to build that object where you are standing.
Click the remove button to remove the object you are standing inside of.
Large objects build down and to the right (stand in where the upper left corner of the object should be).
Objects require empty space to build.
Junklings, Miners, Forges, and Emitters, require power to function.
The hearth generates power and the Emitters extend it.  The power radius is visible as a white circle.
(See walkthrough for more information)

Harvesting resources:
You can build junklings and miners to harvest resources. (See walkthrough)
Junklings and miners must walk on a path.
Junklings and miners follow a simple rule set.
They will always attempt to traverse a path in the following order: forward, right, left.
They will become stopped if none of those options are available.
They always spawn facing north, keep this in mind when deciding where to place them.
Only miners can harvest rocks, building a miner requires 1 gear.

Walkthrough Part 1:
You need to create a hole in the north wall to exit (nothing will happen in this prototype but that is the level goal).
First, you will need a hearth to harvest resources and generate power.
Ideally you will have a cache of power cells (as a resource) and building anything will spend some.
However, in this prototype you can build everything for free (except miners).
If you want to play along build a hearth near the grass on the left (if not skip to the section on gears).
Build a path that goes past the trees and makes a loop back to hearth (to harvest grass), keep in mind the rules of the junklings.
Build some junklings along the path.
You will notice junklings stop if they leave the power radius of the hearth, build some emitters (inside the power radius) to extend the hearth's range).
Next, you will need to start harvesting gears to create miners.
You need a loop and a forge to convert the scrap on the right to gears.
stand four squares to the left of gears and build a forge (RTL)(Right to Left).
Next, build a path and some junklings to harvest harvest the scrap and take it to the forge.
If you didn't build a hearth before, build one five squares left of the forge.
Build a path to harvest gears form the forge and take them to the hearth.
You will need to build some emitters to extend the range of the hearth.

Walkthrough Part 2:
(If you wanted to generate power cells faster, which you don't need in this prototype).
Build a path to harvest (remove) some of the rocks from the south wall (only miners can harvest rocks).
Once rock(s) are removed you can build a path where they once stood.
You can then harvest the water.
Build a forge (you might be able to use the same one as before).
Build a loop to take the water to a forge.
The forge will produce steam, which can be taken to the hearth for more power cell production than grass.
You may need more emitters to reach this area (Tip: You can build more than one hearth).

Walkthrough Part 3:
Now that you have gears, you can build miners.
Build a path to harvest (remove) some of the rocks from the north wall (only miners can harvest rocks).
Tip: Drag the mouse to get a better view of this area.
Take these rocks back to the hearth to free up your miner's hands.
Once rock(s) are removed you can build a path where they once stood.
You may need more emitters to reach this area.
Once you have made an opening the south wall, your automaton is free to escape (you win)!

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Release notes:
You don't need to harvest anything for power, you can skip straight to gears (I hit a time limitation), so just pretend :-)
Your automaton can walk through objects (including the north wall), so just pretend :-)
There is no sound.  I wanted this project to be open source and finding free (quality) sounds is a pain.